# Simple-HR-Analytics-Learning-Project

## Table of Contents
### 1)Introduction
### 2)Data Sources
### 3)Technology
### 4)EDA
### 5)Data Analysis
### 6)Results/Findings
### 7)Recommendations
### 8)Limitations

## Introduction
A simple HR analytics project, aimed at providing insights into key product performance performance metrics, such as Revenue per Discount Band, Annual Revenue per product Brand, as well as the Total Cost compared to the Revenue per Brand.

## Data Sources
Department Data: The 'departments.csv' file contains the basic information about the products such as the Department Name, the Department Goals, the Department ID and the number of Department Employees.
Employee Data: The 'employees.csv' file contains the basic employee information such as the First Name, Last Name, Salary, Employee ID and Department ID.
Project Data: The 'completed_projects.csv', 'upcoming projects.csv' and 'project_assignments.csv' files contain the basic project information such as assignment id, employee id, project id, project name, project budget and the department id.

## Technologies
* MS Excel
* MySQL Workbench 8.0 CE
* MS PowerBI

## Exploratory Data Analysis
EDA involved exploring the sales data to answer key questions such as:

- Which departments are profitable if the department performance is judged in two year intervals?
- What is the most and least profitable department?
- What is the total profit? 

## Data Analysis and Visualization


## Results/Findings
1. The total profit was 1.288.000 million dollars, while the total project cost was 570.000 dollars, the total salary cost was 796.000 dollars.
2. Engineering was the most profitable department, generating 770.000 dollars, while Human Resources was the least profitable, costing the company 25.000 dollars.
3. Sales had the biggest salary cost with 167.000 dollars, while IT had the lowest salary cost of 151.000 dollars. Overall, the salary costs where even across all departments, with the largest gap being 16.000 dollars.
4. There i a dirrect correlation between the department budget and the profit generated by the department.
5. Sales had the largest project cost with 150.000 dollars while  IT had the lowest project cost with 90.000 dollars.
6. While initially there seemed to be a direct correlation between project cost and salary cost, the hypothesis was disproved by the figures seein in the Engineering, Marketing and HR departments.

## Recommendations
Based on the results of our analysis, we recommend the following actions:
  - Since there is a direct correlation between department budget and department profit, in order to improve the profitability of the HR department more budget should be allocated to that department. That budget could originate from the salary or project budget of the sales department, which while having the highest salary and project cost, perfoms poorly in generating capital, being the third worst department in that category and generating only 116.000 dollars.
  - The Engineering department significantly outperforms all other departments, while having the third lowest project budget and third lowest salary budget. Therefore, by allocating more resources to the Engineering department there might be much more profit, since it proved to be the most efficient department.

## Limitations
The datasets were already clean and so no data cleaning took place.
